# Database Scaling

One of the most important topics for system designs.
Database might be the guy that bottlenecks our performance.
This is because all of our applications running are stateless, so they can be scaled up horizontally as much as possible.
But all of these applications will be retrieving data and writing data to single database.

Some simple ways to improve database performance are listed below

## Key Information
Most important thing to note is. E.g. a post or a tweet written by a single account can be viewed millions of time.
- Most web pages are majority reads, around 95% +
Similarly, most web pages searched by Google will have heavy read values.
In almost all cases, we have to stick to the idea that we will be having a lot more reads than writes.

## Basic Scaling Techniques
- Indexes
- Denormalization
- Connection Pooling
- Caching
- Vertical Scaling

## Vertical Scaling
The easiest
- Get a bigger server
- Easiest solution when starting out

## Indexes
- Index based on column
Create index based on the column which is frequently accessed. E.g. userid
It speeds up read performance.

- Speeds up read performance
- Writes and updates become slightly slower
Every time we have to update a row, we need to update the index as well

- More storage required for index
Store the index itself.

## Denormalization
Standard best practice to relational databases
- Add redundant data to tables to reduce joins
- Boost read performance
- Slows down writes
- Risk inconsistent data across tables
If value is changed in one table, we need to make sure that the same value is also changed in the second table.
Values can be different in different tables. This might cause errors in some applications.

- Code is harder to write

## Connection Pooling
This is like Car pooling where everyone rides in the same car to save resources or save money.
So instead of every application thread using different DB connection, every thread pool together and uses the same connection.
- Allow multiple application threads to use same DB connection
- Saves on overhead of independent DB connections

## Caching

- Not directly related to DB
- Cache sits in front of DB to handle serving content
Cache can serve traffic from memory rather than serving from disk. 
This drastically improves performance.

- Can't cache everything

Client <---> CAche -> DB
Redis and memcached can be used for caching.
Facebook serves 99% of their requests from Cache.
And pretty much a very important part of the system.
Their entire architecture is dependent on cache, where their design is to protect database from these heavy usage requests.

## Replication and Partitioning
Easy way is done here. 
From here onwards, we need to start making tradeoffs.

## Read Replicas
- Create replica servers to handle reads
- Master server dedicated only to writes
- Have to handle making sure new data reaches replicas
When using this pattern, we can come across data inconsistency issues.
If something goes wrong with data center networking, and master is not able to connect to replicas, then these replicas will have stale data.
So, depending on our application, this can cause many issues.
Users might get frustrated because they see the same stuff. They don't see recent data.
This takes a lot of engineering practice to make sure we have data consistency.

Master -> Read Replica
        -> Read Replica
        -> Read Replica

Read Replicas take traffic load off the master.
Using this method, we have a built in fault tolerance. if one of the replicas goes down, others can take their place.

## Sharding
- Horizontal Partitioning
- Schema of table stays the same, but split across multiple DBs
If we split our DB, we can have something like this:
People with names from A-M in one DB. People with name from N-Z in other DB.
We now can handle more traffic.

- Downsides - Hot Keys, no joins across shards
This can resolve to uneven traffic if we are not careful while sharding. Names from x,y,z will have a lot lower traffic.

Master (A-M) -> replica-1
            -> replica-2
            -> replica-3

Master (N-Z) -> replica-1
            -> replica-2
            -> replica-3

Instagram Problem - Justin bieber case where his post would cause some troubles in servers due to sharding.

## Vertical Partition
- Divide schema of database into separate tables
- Generally divide by functionality
One big row should never be used. If possible, try to split the data.
This will reduce the size of data and improve performance.

- Best when most data in row isn't need for most queries

E.g. id, username, email, address
Split them in two tables -> (id, username) and (email, address)

IRL example - Instagram split out the like count from photos from datastore for performance.
Easier to implement than sharding. We will be need to shard the database anyway.

## The Devil You Know
When to consider NoSQL Database.
We choose nosql because upfront we know what we are sacrificing. 
We won't be having relational databases.
We know what specifically we want from our application.
E.g. in banking sector, we need consistency, so we cannot use nosql databases.
E.g. for social media, where we don't need consistency right away, we can make these tradeoffs



