# Design a Youtube Clone

## Requirements
- Video Upload
- View uploaded videos
- Search for videos
- Track stats of videos
- Comment on videos

During an interview, better to always clarify than making false assumptions

## Capacity Estimates
- Storage
- Bandwidth

From youtube data
500 hours of video uploaded per minute
1 Billion hours of video watched per day

## Storage Estimates
500 hours of video uploaded per minute

500 * 60 = 30,000 minutes of video per minute

Every minutes assuming has a size of 50MB (Even if we have multiple copies of the same file for different devices).
30,000 * 50MB / 1,000 = 1,500 GB uploaded per minute
1,500 * 60 * 24 / 1000 = 2,160 TB per day

So, we have about 2.16 PB per day

## Bandwidth Estimates
1 Billion hours of video watched daily on Youtube
Assuming 3GB per hour [This is a rough estimate]
1,000,000,000 hours * 3GB per hour / 1000 = 3,000,000 TB
So we have 3,000 PB bandwidth per day

Using this, we can have a look at cloud providers for these estimates.

## Basic Database Design
For analytics, we store likes, dislikes and views for video table

Video Table 
video ID
Description
Thumbnail
Users (userID)
Likes
Dislikes
Views

User Table
userID
username
email
bio

Comments Table
commentID
videoID -> Connects to video table
userID -> Connects to users table
comment
time

For our use case, relational database will work really well.

## System Architecture
client <---> CDN <----> Web server -> App servers

Now, app servers will connect to multiple bodies

App servers -> User Data
            -> Video Metadata -> Video Object Storage
            -> Processing Queue -> Video Upload Server -> Video Object Storage

This will be high level overview
Client will be mobile, tv, desktop

CDN.
We server will be kinda load balancer.
App server will be the guy which will do all the stuff. 
Processing queue is there because app will have a lot of things to do. This is not that easy
Video upload server needs to work on the background and user do some other stuff. Multiple video upload servers to handle video upload from the processing queue.
The uploaded video will be dumped into Video Object Storage (Amazon S3 bucket).
Then in addition to these we will have database where we will store the user data and video metadata (video data and comments)

## CDN
For youtube app, this CDN is a very important part. 
This part will reduce traffic load on the backend.
Push popular vides on CDN in India itself, so our request from India goes to this CDN rather than the data service in US. This will significantly increase the performance.
Not going to store all the videos on this CDN. Only videos with maximum demands should be stored there.

## Web Server
Our load balancer.
Distribute traffic equally across our App servers.
Scale our application as it grows behind our load balancers.
If multiple data centers, web server needs to read our IP and route the request to the nearest datacenter

## App Server
Act as the brains of the entire application.
Here we will have business logic.
If video upload, it will send that file to processing queue.
if search requst, it will send the request to video metadata database. The search also provides some information on the user upload, so we will be quering user data as well as comment data.

## Processing Queue and Video Upload server
We want to make this queue to make our video uploading server less fragile
If the user disconnects form the server while uploading the video, the user might have to upload the video again from the scratch which can be very frustrating.
To avoid this, we make use of Processing queue. Once the file is uploaded, we give this file a taskid and userid and if any part of this fails, we just retry. So, the initial part is getting the file itself, so we need to write an algorithm to handle multi part upload of a file. Look for algo to store data efficiently. Need to also consider failure, how to notify the user and other stuff.
Once the file is uploaded, we need to encode our video. We need to switch from higher resolution to lower resolution on the fly depending on our data speed.
We need to create thumbnail dynamically from the video.
We need to move the video from upload server to Video object Store so it is more accessible.

## Summary
- Define Requirements
We communicate and look what exactly what the interviewer is looking for

- Make Estimates
Make actual estimates. If the requirements are really small, we won't be needing any load balancers or replicas.
Don't overdo things.

- High level design
Design database. Just the high level stuff.
How data moves around the app. What we are using to store the data.
We then name all the parts of our application.

- Specific components
Then we look at specific components. We need to make ensure the interviewer that we understand tradeoff when using sql(relational databases) and nosql databases.
We need to make sure interviewer knows what we are doing, and what we are designing, why are we actually making those choices.
