# Distributed Systems

Keep it simple as possible

What is Distributed System?
A group of computers working together. 
This complexity is hidden from the end users.

## Fallacies of Distributed Systems
The wrong assumptions that we have of distributed systems.
1. Network is reliable
1000s of machines talking to each other
2. Topology doesn't change
service can go down and brought up
3. Latency is zero
4. Bandwidth is infinite
moving data around
5. network is secure
6. only one administrator
multiple people working on same system
7. Transport cost is zero

We need to think about all these parameters when thinking about distributed systems.

## Distributed System Characteristics
1. No shared clock
All servers have their own time (odering events can have an effect on this. Because one clock is off to another. timestamp issues.)
This can also happens in stock exchange where one user might have an advantage over another.
2. No shared memory
It's own ram, own storage. 
3. Shared resources
Hardware, software and data to be shared between nodes.
4. Concurrency and Consistency
Consistency between systems and services working together.
5. Different parts of Distributed System need to be able to talk.
Uniform format to transport information
[similar languages?]
6. Requires agreed upon format or protocol.

## Districuted System Communications
Lot of things can go wrong, need to handle them somehow.
-> Client can't find server
-> Server crash mid request
Server break down. Find a way to resend that request.
Network can fail too.
-> Server response is lost
Server can think it has done it's job, but client doesn't have the response.
-> Client crashes
Client crashes so even if Server has sent the response, client hasn't received them.
Server need to store that reponse and send it to client again once client comes up.

## Benefits
1. More reliable, fault tolerant
Multiple machines, if one goes down, others can handle the load
2. Scalability
Number of machines can be added. Scale them up.
3. Lower Latency, increased performance
We can have applications running around multiple cost centers. So users will have lower latency and increased performance.
4. Cost effective
At some point, we cannot just buy a single big machine. Distributed systems are cost effective.
Buy in bulk and run our software on them.
