# System Design Performance Metrics

## Scalability
1. Ability of a system to grow and manager increased traffic
2. Increased volume of data or requests
Goal is to achieve this scalability without loss of performance
Bad system design can result to bottleneck or exponential increase in cost to serve small increase in traffic

## Reliability
1. Probability a system will fail during a period of time
2. Slightly harder to define than hardware reliability
Easy with hardware. In software, our responses can slow down or something other happens.
Need automated testing to pervent bugs from being deployed.
Tools to perdict and compensate for hardware failure.
We can take that server offline and repair it beforehand.

## Mean time between failure
mtbf = (Total Elapsed time - total downtime)/number of failures
(24 hours = 4 hours)/4 failures = 5 hours mean time between failures

## Availability
1. Amount of time a system is operational during a period of time
2. Poorly designed software requiring downtime for updates is less available
Site down for maintainance
e.g. upgrades for a database
Now a days, that is not the issue.

Availability % (available time / total time) * 100
(23h / 24h) * 100 = 95.83%


## Show table of downtime for 9s
Availability            Annual Downtime
99%                     3 days, 15 hours, 40 mins
99.9%                   8 hours, 46 mins
99.99%                  52 mins, 36s
99.999%                 5.26 mins

99% is terrible for business model.
Common metric is 5 9s. That is service level aggrement.
We can have replicated servers to take over downed servers. We have load balancers for that. The end user dones't need to know.


## Reliable vs Available
1. Reliable system is always an available system
No errors, no breaking. Aim for more reliability
2. Availability can be maintained by redundancy, but system may not be reliable
Overcome by replicas.
3. Reliable software will be more profitable because providing same service requires less backup resources
Less dedicated replicas because we need less amount of hardware to serve the traffic.
4. Requirements will depend on function of the software.
Spacex vs Instagram
Rocket launcher software needs to be reliable!!
E.g. Plane (Needs to be reliable. Once in air, we cannot let it down.) (Availability is making sure a backup plane is available)


## Efficiency
1. How well the system performs
2. Latency and throughput often used as metrics
The delay and total amount of request the system can handle.
A bad algo can have exponential latency.

## Manageability
1. Speed and difficulty involved with maintaining system
Fastest car but cannot drive without crashing it.
2. Obervability, how hard to track bugs
Cannot have a complex system. How observable is the system.
3. Difficulty of deploying updates
High risk means lesser upgrades and less feature releases. 
4. Want to abstract away infrastructure so product engineers don't have to worry about it.
