# Quick Math for Capacity Estimates
Rough figure of resources and servers amounts that we are going to need.

## Data Conversions
Some basic data conversions
8 bits => 1 byte
1024 bytes -> 1 kilobyte
1024 kilobytes -> 1 Megabyte
1024 Megabyte -> 1 Gigabyte
1024 Gigabyte -> 1 Terabyte

We will use these conversions to make estimates

## Common Data Types
Char -> 1 byte
Integer -> 4 bytes
UNIX Timestamp -> 4 bytes

## Time 
60 secs * 60 mins = 3600 secs per Hour
3600 secs * 24 hours = 86400 secs per day
86400 * 30 = 2,500,000 secs per month
and so on
Quick estimates for daily traffic (request per min, request per day, per month etcetra)

## Traffic Estimates
For an instagram type app
- Estimate total number of requests app will receive
- Average Daily Active Users * average reads/writes per user
DAU (Daily Active Users)

10 Million DAU * 30 photos viewed = 300 Million Photo Requests
10 Million DAU * 1 photo upload = 10 Million Photo Writes

300 Million Requests / 86400 = 3472 Requests per second
10 Million writes / 86400 = 115 writes per second

Web app will have much more read requests than writes
We also need to take into account the external and internal requests (microservices)
If we are using microservices, every single external request will have dozens of internal requests between microservices (E.g. to photo microservice, video microservice, analytics microservice, logging, etc)

## Memory
- Read Requests per day * Average Request Size * 0.2
Our average request size is around 500 Bytes
Every request in instagram will have username, description, some comments, timestamp, etc information. That we can estimate as 500Byte per post.

300 Million Requests * 500 Bytes = 150 Gigabytes
Now, we need to cache our most popular data. For this, we take the 20% value of our requests.
Store the most frequently accessed database.
150 GB * 0.2 = 30 Gigabytes
We would like to have replication on our cache, so rough estimation is: (2 as backup, 1 as primary)
30 GB * 3 (replications) = 90 Gigabytes

Generally, we follow 80-20 rule
20% our of data will be overall request data (from the overall traffic)
Popular posts will get viewed millions of times, while other posts will not be viewed that much or not at all
To save time and memory in our database, we are going to cache the most frequently accessed data to reduce latency.
Instead of serving our popular data from the disk (from the actual data center wherever it is stored), we want to store that in our memory to really speed up our processes.

## Bandwidth Requirements
- Requests per day * Request Size
The Photo will be usually served as a CDN
1 MB for the photo, and 500Bytes for all the other data like username, caption, comments, etc (1.5MB)

300 Million Requests * 1.5MB = 450,000 Gigabytes
450,000 / 86400 secs = 5.2 GB per second -> Average Bandwidth needed for our application.
During peak times, we can have 3 times more higher traffic, so 3 times more bandwidth is required.
E.g. People usually login to applications after work. So, the evening time can be considered as peak time. Sleep time can be considered as dead time.

## Storage Estimates
- Writes per day * Size of write * Time to store data(amount of time we want to store the data)
1.5MB is photos and other information.

10 Million Writes * 1.5MB = 15 TB per day
15 TB * 365 * 10 years = 55 Petabytes -> Hold stuff for 10 year or longer!

On average, we need to calculate how much money we are making per user on ads.
Then we can look at the storage cost and bandwidth cost, and then we can see if our idea is profitable or not.

Whenever we have an idea, we first need to see the cost and all other things into consideration to check if the idea is even viable.
It is a very good idea to first have an estimates of these stuffs.

This is the kind of stuff we need to first think of before pitching the idea.
(We can do some practice by taking some other big company and try to estimate their costs)

