# Horizontal vs Vertical Scaling

We look at pros and cons of both and then look into the trade offs.

Let's say we have a webapp.
As the number of users increases, after some time the users might complain that the application is running slow.
That is due to volume of requests increasing.

Server -> (CPU, Memory, I/O, Bandwidth)

A couple of differents reasons might be the case for this 
1. CPU - If we have a lot of computations in our webapp, that can overwhelm the cpu and slow things down
2. Memory - If our apps needs to hold large chunks of data. It might get full and processing might get slow because of that.
3. I/O - How fast our application can read from storage if we want to read images, videos files stored on the hard drive. We have a limit there. 
4. Bandwidth - When streaming, we have a limit at how much data we can push through network. 


## Vertical Scaling
We just get a bigger server. We upgrade whatever we like there (CPU, Memory, or whatever is failing), and our webapp scales just fine.
- Easiest Way to Scale an Application
- Diminishing returns, limits to scalability
E.g. Google have data centers all around the globe and thousands of individual servers. No way, we can have a single server handle that kind of traffic. The number of CPU core and high memory is always limited. So putting a lot of money there won't give us higher outputs.
- Single point of failure
One huge server can go down, and our whole server will go down. 
Something as simple as a person stepping on a network cord which will break everything.

## Horizontal Scaling
We have multiple smallers servers which can be scaled up or scaled down.
- More complexity up front, but more efficient long term
Much cheaper when we buy in bulk
- Redundancy built in
if one if it goes down, the other server serves the traffic. It increasing the reliability of our service.
We have kind of a backup service.
- Need load balancer to distribute traffic
- Cloud providers make this easier

Multiple servers of same hardware.

## Buzzwords
Kubernetes, docker and hadoop
These are the services which deals with scaling issues.
We have a lot of open source projects which deals with these kind of issues.

Hadoop (Used when we have huge amounts of data.) - Example, is Google. it is almost impossible when we have petabytes of data and we want to move the data around. 
To avoid this, we use hadoop. Hadoop is basically a map reduce, it breaks up a massive amount of data into multiple smaller parts which can be worked on by thousands of different servers, and then it puts that data back together.
So, hadoop basically reduces the amount of stress the server would have had to process petabytes of data.

Docker 
Put our application into containers and easily deploy them to various servers.

Kubernetes is build on top of docker containers
K8s
As a small company, it allows us to not invest a lot to try to solve this stuff. 
With kubernetes we can easily scale up and scale down our applications.