# System Design Components

## Load Balancers
Distribute traffic across multiple servers so that any server is not over burdoned or they are under utilized.
Increases reliability and scalability.
We can easily have Dynamic scaling. Scale up and scale down depending on time to save money.
Can have multiple backups using multiple replicas.
- Balancing incoming traffic to multiple servers
- Software or Hardware based
- Used to improve reliability and scalability of application 
- Nginx, HAProxy, F5, Citrix
(Nginx and HAproxy are software based load balancers)
(f5 and Citrix are hardware based. They costs a lot too for big data centers)

## Simple Website
User -> Internet -> Web server (example.com)(Can be nginx or Apache) -> Application(any code that we write)
Works perfectly fine in a perfect world.
But here, if something goes down, users won't be able to access our website.

## Basic LB setup
User -> Internet -> Load Balancer (example.com) -> Web servers (multiple replicas) -> Application (Every web server replica can connect to application which also has it's own replicas)
LB distribute traffic across multiple replicas.

## LB Routing Methods
List of servers available, and we just cycle through them. We just continuously cycle through the list of servers. Problem is, some of the queries can have very heavy database queries. So chances are, some of our servers might get hit with multiple heavy database queries, and this might lock the server up.
- Round Robin: Simplest type of routing. Can result in uneven traffic.
Users are staying persistently connected to the server, this is where we can use this kind of Load Balancing.

LB keep tracks of number of connections each server is serving, and it will route the data to the server which is serving the least number of clients.
- Least Connections - Routes based on number of client connections to server. Useful for chat or streaming applications

How long the server takes time to respond. If the server is handling a lot of clients, it will respond slower, so LB will route traffic to a different server whose response time is lowest
- Least Response Time - Routes based on how quickly servers respond

Useful when we want to maintain sessions. 
In some applications, client needs data on a server which is stored in a particular server.
To do that, we hash IP address, so that the request will only go to that particular server.
Shopping cart is a good example for this. The LB will send your request to the server where our shopping cart info is stored.
- IP Hash - Routes client to server based on IP. Useful for stateful sessions.

## Types of Load Balancers - L4 and L7
- Layer 4
Only has access to TCP and UDP data
Faster (Doesn't have to process any incoming requests for routing)
Lack of information can lead to uneven traffic (No full access to request itself. Good for a DDOS attack where we can just reject this request at the start itself. All data centers will first route their traffic through L4 LB before allowing it into our application)

- Layer 7
Full access to HTTP protocol and data
SSL termination (it can decrypt traffic)
Check for authentication (Logging in.)
Smarter routing options 
More CPU intensive. But drop in cost of hardware, it is not a big factor.

## Redundant LB setup
Production level LB

User -> Internet -> Load Balancers (example.com and Passive load balancers) -> Web servers with multiple replicas -> Application with multiple replicas

Both the load balancers will serve Web servers in the backend.
One is Active load balancer and other is passive load balancer. Both of these load balancers communicate with each other. If something goes wrong with active load balancer, passive load balancer takes up it's place.

Behind these load balancers, we have our web servers and applications.