# Data Persistence and Durability with Redis?

- How can an In-Memory DB persist data?
- How can I recover data?
- How can I be confident that my data is safe?

Safe way is to replicate Redis? If master goes down, all other replicas
will have the data. But what if all replicas goes down too? We will
loose data. Because of this, we actually need real persistance.

How can we keep the data safely persisted?
1. Snapshotting (RDB)
   Produces single-file point-in-time snapshots of your dataset (dump.rdb)

Configure based on time or number of writes passed.
These snapshots will be stored on disk. This is great for backups
and disaster recovery.
But with snapshots, we may lose the latest minutes of data.

2. Append Only File (AOF)
   Logs every write operation continuously.
   memory -> disk

When restarting Redis, it will re-play the AOF to build the state.

AOF is more durable but can be slower than snapshoting.

3. Use combination of both (Snapshotting + Append Only File)
   Best practice is to use both persistance options.
   Redis actually pans to unify AOF and RDB

Regular snapshots for DB backups and Persisting all operations one
after the another.
Even if everything fails, we can still have our data safe.

Where are these presistence files stored?
On the same server, where is Redis running?

Best Practice: Separate Persistent Storage from Data Service

Server, where DB service runs - Server, where our data is backed up.

## Separate Storage
Always store persistance data in separate cloud storage (block storage, etc)
This make Infrastructure Management easier.
We can just re-create infra and pull data from separate storage.

Redis runs on EC2 (AWS container)
AOF and Snapshots persisted outside these EC2 servers (Block Storages)
(I think this is very similar to what Open Search and Elastic Search
does)
