# Scaling Redis
We know about Data Persistence and Durability and Best Practices.

How to scale a Redis Database?
Let's say our single servers runs out of memory or Redis becomes
a bottleneck and cannot handle any more requests.
How to increase the capacity in this case?
We have several options for this.

1. Clustering
   Primary (or Master) for reading and writing. And then we can have
   multiple replicas of Primary for reading (Client can read from Primary
   as well as from any replica)
   This way, redis can handle more requests and it is High Available.
   If one of the primary fails, our replicas can take over as primary.

Replicas hold complete copies of Primary Instance's data.
The more replicas, the more memory space.
Using 1 Server for our Redis Cluster may not be a very bad practice.
All our replicas will live in a single server, and if that fails, our
redis DB is basically gone.
We will have a Downtime for Server Crashing.

Instead, we would like to Distribute among multiple servers (nodes)
Example: master server on 1 node, and replicas on other nodes.

Good enough?
What if Dataset is too large? What if all our Primary runs out of
memory? This will cause all replicas to run out of memory as well.
Master Instance will not be replicated because writes won't work
but only reads will.
To avoid all this, we use a concept called Sharding.

2. Sharding
   General concept in Database.

We take our complete dataset, and divide datasets into smaller shards.
Now, each shard is responsible for its own subset of data.

So now, instead of having 1 master, we can now spit our database
into 4 shards, and can have 4 master running at once.
Each of these will be responsible for read and write for the subset
of the data.

Each shard needs less memory (as we have divided it.)
This means we can scale our cluster horizontally.

If our dataset grows, and our servers are running out of memory,
we can re-shard it into smaller chunks and add scale out our cluster.

- Multiple Nodes
- Multiple replicas
- Sharded
  Using the above features, we have a highly performant and Highly
  Available Database that can handle many requests and queries without
  any bottleneck.

But what about Running and maintaining these Redis clusters?
We need to manage it ourselves.

Focus more on app development, rather than maintaining data services?
We can use Redis Enterprise for this (the paid version)
