# RPC and Threads

Why we use go?
Good support for threads and locking.
Go has a good Remote Procedure Call Package (RPC)
go is memory safe. Garbage collector is present in Go.

Go is much simpler than c++
The error message in cpp is bad. 

The effective go. (If we want to learn go)

## Threads
Manage concurrency in programs.
Very important in Distributed Programming.

threads : Go routines

threads: We have an address space, we have only one thread of execution
running in that space.
Each thread has separate set of registers, separate stack. 

Each thread can refer to other's address but we avoid that.

Main reasons we like thread a lot.
### 1. Concurrency
I/O concurrency
Create 1 thread for each of RPC (Remote Procedure Calls).
Allowing 1 activity waiting, and another thread is processing.

### 2. Parallelism
Multi core parallelism
Sometimes this is extremely important.
Thread needs to harness the multi pore processing.

### 3. Convenience Reasons
Something we need to do perodically.
Example: Heath check, workers are still alive or not, check every
second. 
This go routine will just run every second.


If not thread, we can also use, event driven programming.
## Event Driven programming
We use 1 thread, we run a loop where we keep checking for an input,
we then run that activity based on the input.
Event driven driven does not give us CPU concurrency. 
This does not harnesss power of multi core CPUs.

Threads are generally more convenient.
Better than event driven programming.
Better to run these even based program individually using threads.
Threads can start to get every expensive.
When we have to assign a thread for every activity, it would be 
better to have event driven programming. E.g. we cannot just run
million threads i.e. a thread for every customer.

## Difference between Process and Threads
Process is a program which can have multiple threads. 
This process has it's own memory.
When we run a program, it is a process for a UNIX operating system.

Historically, every process just like threads will have their own 
memory space. Other processes are not allowed to use these memory 
spaces. Operating system takes care of this.
Threads are provided by OS. It is responsible for assigning threads to
different processes when required.

## Writing threaded code challenges
What to do with memory used by threads?
Sometimes, we have memory which is shared by threads.
Multiple threads may be using and updating an array parallelly.
Example: a simple counter element which is incremented whenever a 
thread runs some program.

What if 2 threads at the same time are trying to run increment the 
same variable?
How does a variable gets incremented in the first place?
Let's try to look up the machine code
register (ro)
LD x, ro # Load x from register
ADD 1, ro # Add 1 to registry
ST ro, x # Store register to x

Now, what if initial value of counter is 0, 2 threads try to increment
counter at the same time. They follow the same machine code, 
and now the value of n is 1 (both ran parallely). 
Here value is 1, but actual value should be 2.

This is a classic danger. This is called a RACE.
This is a race between two processes. If 2nd process loads value after
store code is executed, it will get value 1, and it will then increment
the desired value to 2.
If not, then 2nd process will load value of 0, and again increment it 
to 1.

To avoid this, we can use locks. 
We usually lock memories until some program is completed executing.
The memory is then freed. 
This locking becomes useful in threaded programming a lot.

Is each individual machine code atomic? -> Some are, some are not.

How does go know, which variable we are locking? -> Go has no idea.
The strategy is created by programmer itself.

Let's say we have a variable mu
Mutex mu;
Now if mu.lock() method is invoked, and other thread tried to run the
program, the other thread has to wait until mu.unlock() method 
is called again.

Is it better to keep locks inside data structure?
Over lock overhead.
2 DS each with locks, we can risk cycles and dead locks.
It's better to just write them outside of our data structures.


## Coordination
Threads work independently, they don't know about others.
We can acquire this by using 
channels (send data and wait)
Sync Conditions (condition variables)
Wait Group ()

## Damage: Dead lock
We run into this problem.
(lock A) T1 (waiting) -> T2 (waiting for T1 for something) (lock B)
T1 and T2 are waiting for each other. 
This is called a dead lock.

### Serial Crawler
We also want to fetch parallel, because it takes a lot of time
to fetch all the urls.
How do we know when to stop? -> This is the hardest part.
Checkouf 2.SerialCrawler.go program to check Serial and Concurrent
Crawler functions

