# Fault Tolerance - Raft 2

## Raft
Let's look at our previous example
    10  11  12  13
S1: 3
S2: 3   3   4
S3: 3   3   5   6

The new entry, 6 append entry will also have the prevousLogIndex and
previousLogTerm
For 6, prevLogIndex=12, and prevLogTerm=5
But, for server 2, this is not true. 
So server1 is going to reject append entry from s3. Same goes for s2.

Leader maintains the nextIndex field for every server.
So, term 13, s3 will have nexIndex[s3] and nextIndex[s2] will be 13

Using leader sends both prevlogindex and prevlogterm.
The secondary servers uses these prevlogindex and prevlogterm to check
it's own progress and see it the value matches. if the value matches, 
it accepts the append request from the new leader.
if it does not match, the server rejects the append request.


## Correctness of System
How to elect a correct leader?
Why not use the server with the longest log as the leader?

Image we have 3 servers again
S1 5 6 7
S2 5 8
S3 5 8

Let's assume that this condition can actually arrive and it does.
Assume receives 6, it died, it got elected again, it appends 7
and it died and now it gone.
Now, s2 is elected, and it received 8 and it commited it to s3.
Thus, we have arrived at the above condition.

Thus, we can see that s1 cannot become a leader even though it has
the longest log.
Shortest log doesn't work either.
Since s2 and s3 is commited, we cannot just remove 8.

## 5.4.1 Election Restriction
Vote "yes" only if candidate has higher term in last log entry, 
or same last term, 
and log length >= server that received the voter request


## Fast Backup
Case 1:
S1 4 5 5
S2 4 6 6 6

Case 2:
4 4 4
4 6 6 6

Case 3:
4
4 6 6 6

## Append Entry Reply
XTERM - Term of conflicting entry
XINDEX - Index of conflicting entry with XTERM
XLEN - Length of Log


## Persistent and Volatile
LOG
CurrentTerm
VotedFor

These are the factors limiting the performance. 
This is called Synchronous Disk Update.


## Writing to Disk
write() vs fsync()
fsync is used only when we want to do Synchronous Disk Update (This is
persistent).
Write does not mean that the data will be persistent. It can just 
reside in ram when it can be used by the machine.

## Snapshots
LOG can be very very big. To get to the application state, the 
machine might have to run millions of log lines.
To avoid this, we use something called as snapshots.

We store some state of the application of some point of time.
The log before that time can be thrown away.

## Restart
Find the latest snapshot and give it to application.

## Instant Snapshot
When a leader breaks down, the leader sends its latest application 
snapshot and all other log statements to all its followers.
Every snapshot has to be labelled with the log entry which it has 
used to create snapshot.

## Is our approach correct? What is the definition of correctness?
How do we tell if the response we got is correct?

LINEARIZABILITY : Formalization if our sevice is just a simple service
rather than a replicable one.

Execution history (sequence of client requests) is linearizable if
total order of operations that matches real time for non-concurrent
requests and each read sees most recent write in order.

Example 1:
