# Understanding Service Discovery

What we have now
We have one service calling two other services and we are getting a response.

What are we doint wrong here?
- Hardcoding URLs

Why are hard coded URLs bad?
- Changes requires code updates
- Dynamic URLs in the cloud
- Load Balancing (We can scale up individual microservices)
- Multiple Environments

Because of all these reasons, we have Service Discovery

## Service Discovery
One of the patterns which is used for microservice development

How do we do service discovery?

Client and we have service1, service2, and service3.

How would we construct a Service Discovery from Scratch?
- Register all URLs
- Deploy something in between (Discovery Server) which knows these service URLs of microservices
- Client will call the Discovery server and the discovery server will then direct our requests to required microservice

How does the Discovery Server discover the services?
Let's assume somehow it knows.
When we start a discovery service, all the services needs to register itself to Discovery Service.
Kinda a phone book. 

Client talks to discovery server (tells it needs service2), and discovery server provides the address to service2. Then the client talks to server2 directly.

Disadvantages:
- Chatty architecture

This is called Client Side Discovery, where client is doing all the work.
This is one of two models for Service Discovery

We have an alternative for it, and it is Server Side Discovery.
Do all this on the server.

Now, we have all services registered to discovery server.
Now, client says tell service2 he said "hi".
Now, Discovery Server will pass the message to the right service.

Advantage:
- No extra hops
- Less chatty

Sprint Cloud uses client side discovery.

Can we get the information manually from the discovery service? Is it possible to cache the value for some time?
- yes, and yes.
- Too much work is being done by Spring. Spring does the cache and discovery stuff.
