# Introduction To Microservices

## Why microservices?
Before microservices - Monolithic Architecture

Monolithic Arch is like a big container wherein all the software components of an application are assembled together and tightly packaged.

Not divided into small components.
They are tightly coupled.

### Monolithic Arch
Let's take a classic use case of e-commerce application

Single Instance of our application is launched for customer service, product service and cart service.
How to scale it? -> multiple instances of app behind a LB.

1. Pros
- Easy to deploy.
- Easy to write code.
- Simple to scale. 

2. Cons
- Large and complex application. Development slows down. Difficult to understand. Quality of code decreases.
- Slow Development.
- Blocks Continuous Deployments. To update one components, we need to redeploy the whole application.
Risk with redeployment increases.
- Unscalable.
Caching less effective. 
Every one of our components use different CPUs and different Memory.
So, if we are increasing CPU or Memory, we need to do that to all of our application instances.
- Unreliable
Tighly coupled components. If one of our components goes down, all of our application goes down. One bug will impact the whole application's availability.
- Inflexible
New framework is difficult to adapt with Monolithic Application.
Huge barrier to involve latest technologies in our Monolithic architecture.

## What is Microservice Architecture?
Ms, ada MS arch, is an architectural style that structures an application as a collection of small autonomous services, modelled around a Business Domain.

In Microservie Arch, each service is self-contained and implements a single Business capability.

### MS Arch - Example
Let's take the same case of E Commerse

Each component is a different MS.
Customer MS, Product MS, Cart MS.
Each MS is responsible for it's own data.
Multiple instances for different MS.
Each MS has their own Data model.


## Microservice Architecture
Services are small, independent and loosely coupled.
Each MS has it's own code base, and each of them can be deployed separatly.
Each code base will be small.
To update a service, we don't need to touch other services. Because of this, the availability of our application is not affected.
Each MS might not have the same data model.

### Management Component
like kubernetes

### Service Discovery
Find endpoint for a service

### API Gateway
Entrypoint for the client
forward call to appropriate microservice
Return aggregiated response.

### Features of MS Arch
- Small Focused
Simplicity. 
- Loosely Coupled
Each MS is independent (almost). Makes deployment easy.
- Language Neutral
Depends on the use case, we can use multiple languages to get our work done.
- Bounded Context
Each MS does't need to understand the implementation of other microservices.


## Advantages of MS Arch
- Independent Development
- Independent Deployment
Focus on one service
- Fault Isolation
Big advantage. If one service goes down, our availabilty is not affected.
- Mixed Technology Stack
Pick any technology.
- Granular Scaling
Scale services independently


## Companies Using Microservices
Amazon, netflix, soundcloud, twitter, uber, paypal, ebay, etc..
