# Doing Client Side Load Balancing

1. What happens if the application name of one of these microservices is changed?
- then we are in trouble
- We need to make required changes to make application work again properly.
- We need to fix some values

2. Is there a way to fetch all available service names at runtime? For example, if we don't know ahead-of-time what the service names are.
- Yes, we can do that

3. After a Eureka client gets service information by calling Eureka server, does it still call Eureka server for every subsequent call to that service?
- No. Not always. There is always a default cache that it maintains

What will happen if we increase the number of replicas of service1.
When client says it wants to get service1, Discovery server says that it has 3 instances of service 1, it asks client to take a pick.
Now client has to do the load balancing, but due to wrapped libraries, spring boot takes care of this for us (in @LoadBalancer annotation.)

Way to run a jar file with some params
```bash
# To build the jar
./gradlew build
java -Dserver.port=8201 -jar build/libs/movie-info-service-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
-Dserver.port is a property that we are giving to java. This is how we typically do it.
This will overwrite the port here.
Now, once we run this, we will have 2 instances of movie-info-service running.
This is not affective load balancing (if we have 100 clients running and all of them are doing a load balancing from client side, it is possible that all request might end up in the same microservice instance.). This is because load balancing here is of Round Robin type (we have studied this, try to remember it.)
We get all of this by default by one annotation (@LoadBalanced)
We can just use service names as URLs.

