# Microservices vs service oriented architectures

Managing this complexity

- Patterns 
make microservices work well together

- Technologies
Libraries and frameworkds to solve common problems

e.g. Eureka -> Solves the problem of service discovery

What is an example of a pattern and technology? What's the difference?
- Service discovery is a pattern.
We have technologies which allows this pattern to work.

What is the difference between microservices and web services?
- Service oriented Architecture:
We create a service which serves as a web application who we don't know if anyone is going to use or not. Here, we don't have an idea of how the application will be used
A lot of complexity involved. 
We don't know who is going to be used in future. Needed to have a safety infra established. 
- Microservice Architecture:
We have an idea of how the microservice is going to be used.
We already know what the use of this particular microservice is. 
We don't intend it to be reused but it can be reused. But we usually create a microservice with a particular goal in mind for that ms.
It can be reused, but it is not designed for it.


Services in Service Oriented architecture deal only with data, not UI. How about in microservices?
- It is basically the same thing.
UI can be a microservice. This microservice will be a microservice which will consume other microservices.

## In this course
- We'll start from scratch
- Pick one "set" of technologies - Spring Cloud
- use only what's required.

